Name: Preethi T
Company: Codtech IT Solutions Pvt. Ltd
ID: CT08DS6334
Domain: Embedded System
Duration: July to August 2024

TASK-1

LED Blinking with Arduino - Wowki Simulation

This project demonstrates a simple LED blinking program using an Arduino in the Wowki simulation environment. The purpose of this project is to familiarize users with basic Arduino programming and simulation in a virtual environment.

Project Overview

Objective:
Create a basic circuit where an LED connected to an Arduino board blinks at regular intervals.

Components Used:
- Arduino Uno
- LED (any color)
- Resistor (220Ω)
- Breadboard
- Jumper wires

Software:
- Wowki Simulation Platform

 Circuit Diagram

The LED is connected to one of the digital pins on the Arduino (e.g., pin 13), with the cathode (short leg) connected to the ground through a 220Ω resistor. The anode (long leg) of the LED is connected to the digital pin.

 Code Overview

cpp
// Set the LED pin
const int ledPin = 13;

void setup() {
  // Initialize the LED pin as an output
  pinMode(ledPin, OUTPUT);
}

void loop() {
  // Turn the LED on (HIGH voltage)
  digitalWrite(ledPin, HIGH);
  
  // Wait for a second
  delay(1000);
  
  // Turn the LED off (LOW voltage)
  digitalWrite(ledPin, LOW);
  
  // Wait for a second
  delay(1000);
}

 How it Works

1. Setup Phase: The setup() function initializes the LED pin as an output. This setup only runs once when the Arduino is powered on or reset.
  
2. Loop Phase: The loop() function repeatedly turns the LED on and off with a 1-second delay between each action, creating a blinking effect.

 Running the Simulation

1. Open Wowki Simulation: Navigate to Wowki and open the Arduino simulation environment.
2. Build the Circuit: Use the components to create the circuit as described.
3. Upload the Code: Copy and paste the provided code into the Wowki code editor.
4. Start the Simulation: Run the simulation to observe the LED blinking.

Conclusion

This project is an introductory exercise to help you get started with Arduino programming. The LED blinking program is a foundational example, and mastering it will give you the confidence to explore more complex projects in the future.


     
   
